Add Clone and synchronize organizations with Moderne docs (#126)
moderneinc/moderne-docs: user-documentation/moderne-cli/how-to-guides/clone-and-sync.md

{% endhint %}

### Options
You can pass the following clone options into the clone command

- `--filter` - This is the equivalent to the `git clone --filter` option. [Read more](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone/en#Documentation/git-clone.txt-code--filtercodeemltfilter-specgtem)
- `--depth` - This is the equivalent to the `git clone --depth` option. [Read more](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone/en#Documentation/git-clone.txt-code--depthcodeemltdepthgtem)
- `--single-branch` - Only clone the branch Moderne knows for this repository
- `--limit` - Only clone the first n repositories. Usage is not recommended outside of debugging purposes.
- `--metadata` or `--metadata-only` - Make a [metadata only clone](#metadata-only-clone)

### Directory structure

Repositories are cloned into directories by their path. What the path looks like depends on the SCM the code is stored in. For instance in GitHub the code path looks like `organization/repository` or `openrewrite/rewrite-spring` while in GitLab it can have more path segments `parent-group/child-group/repository`.

> As an example, the structure for the `Default` organization on our app-tenant looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, the structure for the `Default` organization on app.moderne.io looks like this:
```

```
.
└── clone_into
    ├── Netflix
    │   ├── ndbench
    │   ├── photon
    │   └── ribbon
    ├── apache
    │   └── maven-doxia
    ├── aws
    │   └── amazon-documentdb-jdbc-driver
    ├── awslabs
    │   └── aws-saas-boost
    ├── finos
    │   ├── messageml-utils
    │   ├── spring-bot
    │   ├── symphony-bdk-java
    │   └── symphony-wdk
    ├── openrewrite
    │   ├── rewrite-recipe-bom
    │   └── rewrite-sql
    └── spring-projects
        ├── spring-data-commons
        └── spring-petclinic
```

### Metadata only clone
If you are only interested in running recipes on LSTs you can use a metadata only clone. This will only download limited metadata for each repository to be used by the `mod build` command to download the correct LST.

This type of clone is much faster than a full clone, but has the downside that it does not allow applying recipe results. 

> If you find yourself in a situation that you changed your mind and you do want to apply results you need to [convert a metadata clone into a full clone](#convert-a-metadata-only-clone-into-a-full-clone)

Reviewer: I think I would change the title of this doc to include "for running recipes" or something like that. I can't think of a single case for running recipes that would benefit from a full clone at the outset.

The problem I see with this section is we leave it up to their judgment whether to full clone or not, without giving them the knowledge required to build that judgment.

## Organization context

> Aside from repositories, `mod git clone moderne` also stores the organization context to file. The `clone_into/.moderne/organization.yml` file contains information about the cloned organization that can be used by subsequent commands. 

Reviewer: I had a lot of trouble parsing this sentence. I think the following may be better (if I understood what you were going for):

```suggestion
`mod git clone moderne` creates directories containing metadata for each repository, and also stores metadata for the organization itself. The file `clone_into/.moderne/organization.yml` contains information about the cloned organization that can be used by subsequent commands. 
```

> Currently `mod git sync moderne` and `mod devcenter run` make use of this organization context.

Reviewer: ~make use of~ -> require?

## Sync

> To update your organization with any new commits ingested into Moderne, or to update the [organization context](#organization-context) you can use the following command:

Reviewer: I would create two subheadings for this section. You already have the content for both subsections.

```markdown
The sync command has two main uses: 1. to update your currently-cloned organization's repositories and metadata with any changes (e.g. updated changeset, added/removed repositories, DevCenter configuration), and 2. to convert a metadata-only clone into a full clone for the purposes of applying recipe run results.
 
### Update organization

### Convert a metadata-only clone into a full clone
```

```bash
mod git sync moderne clone_into
```

This command consists of:
- `mod git sync moderne` - the command
- `clone_into` - the working directory into which the organization will be cloned

This command only works in a directory that has an [organization context](#organization-context) which is the result of a [clone](#clone) command. 
It can be used to update a full or metadata only clone or even to [convert a metadata clone into a full clone](#convert-a-metadata-only-clone-into-a-full-clone)

{% hint style="warning" %}
Because it is possible for repositories to have been removed from the organization, the **mod git sync moderne** command also deletes repositories from disk.
{% endhint %}

### Options
- `--last-recipe-run` or `--recipe-run <id>` - Only update repositories that had (search or fix) results in the selected recipe run
- `--metadata` or `--metadata-only` - Make a [metadata only clone](#metadata-only-clone) (only supported if the original clone was metadata only)

### Convert a metadata only clone into a full clone

> Recipe results cannot be applied to a metadata only clone. If you do want to apply results you can use the `mod git sync moderne` command to turn your metadata only clone into a full clone simply by ommiting the `--metadata[-only]` option.

Reviewer: Grammar

```suggestion
Recipe results cannot be applied to a metadata only clone. If you want to apply results, you can use the `mod git sync moderne` command to turn your metadata only clone into a full clone simply by omitting the `--metadata[-only]` option.
```

## Clone command

The [mod git clone moderne](/user-documentation/moderne-cli/cli-reference.md#mod-git-clone-moderne) command will clone the repositories in the specified organization to your local machine. It will then check out the branch and changeset of the LST that Moderne currently knows about for said repository. This ensures that a subsequent `mod build` will be able to download the LST from Moderne – so you don't have to spend the time building each repository locally.

By default, this command will do a **full clone** of **all** of the repositories in the organization. If you only want to run recipes and don't care about the code, you should do a [metadata only clone](#metadata-only-clone) instead. We also offer [other options](#options) for reducing the scope of this command to meet your needs.

Regardless of what options you provide, the base clone command requires two parameters: 

1. A path to the directory that all of the projects will be cloned into
2. The name of the organization you want to clone

Below is an example of how this looks:

```bash
mod git clone moderne clone/into/path moderneOrganizationName
```

{% hint style="info" %}

> The `mod git clone moderne` command **does not** build the LSTs for each of the repositories. If you want to run recipes against them, you will need to run the [mod build](/user-documentation/moderne-cli/cli-reference.md#mod-build) command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `mod git clone moderne` command **does not** build or download the LSTs for each of the repositories. If you want to run recipes against them, you will need to run the [mod build](/user-documentation/moderne-cli/cli-reference.md#mod-build) command.
```

```bash
mod git clone moderne clone/into/path moderneOrganizationName --metadata-only
```

This will significantly increase the speed of the clone command as it only pulls down metadata for each repository. When you go to run `mod build` after this command, this metadata will be used to download the pre-built LST for reach repository.

Please note, though, that if there is no pre-built LST for a repository, you will **not** be able to build that repository and recipe runs will skip over said repository.

If you've performed a metadata only clone and then decided you actually needed the full code, you can [run a command to convert the metadata only clone to a full clone](#convert-a-metadata-only-clone-into-a-full-clone).

### Options

If you want to change what the `mod git clone moderne` command does, you can do so by passing in one or more of the following options:

* `--filter` : This is equivalent to the `git clone --filter` option. [Read more](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone/en#Documentation/git-clone.txt-code--filtercodeemltfilter-specgtem).

> *  `--depth` : This is the equivalent to the `git clone --depth` option. [Read more](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone/en#Documentation/git-clone.txt-code--depthcodeemltdepthgtem).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `--depth` : This is the equivalent to the `git clone --depth` option. [Read more](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone/en#Documentation/git-clone.txt-code--depthcodeemltdepthgtem).
```

```bash
mod git sync moderne path/to/cloned/organization --metadata-only
```

### Convert a metadata only clone into a full clone

If you've performed a [metadata only clone](#metadata-only-clone) and then decided you want the code for the repositories to be downloaded, too (so you can build the repositories locally or apply recipe changes) – you can use the `mod git sync moderne` command to convert some or all of your metadata only clones into a full clone:

#### If you want to convert all of your metadata clones into full clones

```bash
mod git sync moderne path/to/cloned/repos moderneOrganizationName
```

#### If you want to convert only the metadata clones that have recipe results

```bash
mod git sync moderne path/to/cloned/repos moderneOrganizationName --last-recipe-run
```

OR

```bash
mod git sync moderne path/to/cloned/repos moderneOrganizationName --recipe-run <id>
```

## Full example

Below is an example of how you might use all of these commands in practice:

```bash
# Do a metadata clone all of the repos in the OpenRewrite organization
# to the working/dir directory.

> mod git clone moderne working/dir "OpenRewrite" --metadata

Reviewer 2: Ya I was trying to make it extra clear that it can be different things - but if you think this is weird I can also default to one example.

> mod git clone moderne working/dir "OpenRewrite" --metadata

Reviewer 2: I ended up modifying these a bit to reduce the number that exist.
